#gatsby-bridging-programme #uk #motivation-statement 

### Article:

[Inhibition of CSF1R, a receptor involved in microglia viability, alters behavioral and molecular changes induced by cocaine](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-021-95059-7#Abs1)

[Gatsby People](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/gatsby/people)

[Arthur Gretton Research](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/28698-arthur-gretton/publications)

## Emilie's Suggestion

Implementing sophisticated models requires programming proficiency, but it's not enough, their creation also requires an understanding of the mathematical principles underlying them. A final year Information Systems student in Brazil and aspiring Theoretical Neuroscience researcher, I recognize my limitations and the need for deeper mathematical expertise beyond my current computational background. The Gatsby Bridging Programme will give me the necessary fundamentals.  
  
My academic journey begins as an undergraduate researcher, supported by a scholarship in Bioinformatics. During a data-driven project aimed at optimizing LIMS for the establishment of the Brazilian Nacional Vaccination Center, I had the opportunity to collaborate with neuroscience laboratories, where I was first exposed to the field after reading a paper on how inhibition of a receptor alters behavioral and molecular changes induced by cocaine.  
  
The formal introduction to Machine Learning during my coursework deepened my curiosity about the parallels between artificial and biological neural systems.  In particular, I became instigated by intelligent behaviour models. This was the point that I was first introduced to the Gatsby Unit research. In particular, Professor Arthur Gretton's research addressing AI system's capacity to generate faithful samples based on real-world objects, specially images. His research intersects with my undergraduate thesis project: the implementation of a computer vision-based cFOS analysis tool. Which allows me to finally collaborate in the field. As a next step, my ambition is to apply to the ERASMUS Joint Master's Degree in Brain and Data Science program.  
  
Despite being introduced to Machine Learning, the computer science-based approach is insufficient to achieve my goal. Key mathematical concepts covered by this programme, such as Dynamical Systems and Fourier Analysis, will be valuable to my thesis and further research. Additionally, the lack of investment in research in Brazil is a significant concern, especially having to reconcile work and study to provide for myself. The Gatsby Bridging Programme may offer me the opportunity to focus solely on absorbing the fundamental concepts to advance my research, opening new doors into my academic future.